slides/introduction/01_slide.md, before:

# Chef Fundamentals

Opscode, Inc.

OPS150-04.01

December, 2011

.notes These course materials are Copyright © 2010-2011 Opscode, Inc. All rights reserved.
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution Share Alike 3.0 License. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/; or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 2nd Street, Suite 300, San Francisco, California, 94105, USA.

# Introduction

Welcome to Chef Fundamentals!

# Objectives

At completion of this unit you should...

* Know your instructor and fellow students
* Understand what we’re going to cover in this course

# Logistics

* Start and finish time
* Breaks
* Lunch
* Restrooms
* Refreshments
* Parking

# Instructor

* Name
* Company / Group
* Experience w/ Configuration Management

# Students

* Name
* Company / Group
* Experience w/ Configuration Management
* Course Objective

# What this course is

End to end guide to the basics of Chef including:

* Working with the API
* Writing new cookbooks
* Managing infrastructure as code
* Understanding common patterns used by Opscode
* Hands on exercises for each Unit

# What this course isn't

* Direct comparison to other tools.
* In depth details on advanced topics.
* Discussion of application deployment strategies.
* Setup/management of Open Source Chef Server.

# Course Objectives

* Understand Opscode’s products
* Understand Chef architecture
* Create and modify cookbooks
* Work with Chef Server API

# Agenda: Day 1

* Introduction
* Getting Started
* Anatomy of a Chef Run
* Example Cookbook

# Agenda: Day 2

* Roles
* Adding Cookbooks
* Node Attributes

# Agenda: Day 3

* Introduction to Search
* Adding a New Node
* Data bags
* Troubleshooting
* Chef Development and Further Resources

# Agenda: Hack Day

Chef Hack Day on Saturday!

* Mini-tutorials/talks
* Demonstrations
* Collaboration and learning
* Hacking on Chef, cookbooks and more!
* Venue varies by location

# Course Artifacts

At the end of the class:

* Access to Opscode Hosted Chef
* Workstation setup to work with Opscode Hosted Chef
* Repository that can be used to get started

# About best practices

This course encompasses what we consider best practices.

Many things in Chef have multiple approaches. We will focus on one,
but may mention others for awareness.

Best practices themselves are subjective.

Chef is flexible and you can make it do what you want.

# About the course materials

All Opscode’s Chef training materials are licensed under Creative
Commons. See the license header slide in each presentation for
information.

# Summary

You should now be familiar with the instructor and students and what
we’re going to cover.

Commit message:

Update license information
* Extend year to 2012
* Use United States version of Creative Commons license

slides/introduction/01_slide.md, after:

# Chef Fundamentals

Welcome to Chef Fundamentals!

OPS150-04.01 - January, 2012

Created and Sponsored by Opscode, Inc.

<center><font size="-2">Copyright © 2010-2012 Opscode, Inc.</font></center>

.notes These course materials are Copyright © 2010-2012 Opscode, Inc. All rights reserved.
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution Share Alike 3.0 United States License. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us; or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 2nd Street, Suite 300, San Francisco, California, 94105, USA.

# Introduction

Welcome to Chef Fundamentals!

# Objectives

At completion of this unit you should...

* Know your instructor and fellow students
* Understand what we’re going to cover in this course

# Logistics

* Start and finish time
* Breaks
* Lunch
* Restrooms
* Refreshments
* Parking

# Instructor

* Name
* Company / Group
* Experience w/ Configuration Management

# Students

* Name
* Company / Group
* Experience w/ Configuration Management
* Course Objective

# What this course is

End to end guide to the basics of Chef including:

* Working with the API
* Writing new cookbooks
* Managing infrastructure as code
* Understanding common patterns used by Opscode
* Hands on exercises for each Unit

# What this course isn't

* Direct comparison to other tools.
* In depth details on advanced topics.
* Discussion of application deployment strategies.
* Setup/management of Open Source Chef Server.

# Course Objectives

* Understand Opscode’s products
* Understand Chef architecture
* Create and modify cookbooks
* Work with Chef Server API

# Agenda: Day 1

* Introduction
* Getting Started
* Anatomy of a Chef Run
* Example Cookbook

# Agenda: Day 2

* Roles
* Adding Cookbooks
* Node Attributes

# Agenda: Day 3

* Introduction to Search
* Adding a New Node
* Data bags
* Troubleshooting
* Chef Development and Further Resources

# Agenda: Hack Day

Chef Hack Day on Saturday!

* Mini-tutorials/talks
* Demonstrations
* Collaboration and learning
* Hacking on Chef, cookbooks and more!
* Venue varies by location

# Course Artifacts

At the end of the class:

* Access to Opscode Hosted Chef
* Workstation setup to work with Opscode Hosted Chef
* Repository that can be used to get started

# About best practices

This course encompasses what we consider best practices.

Many things in Chef have multiple approaches. We will focus on one,
but may mention others for awareness.

Best practices themselves are subjective.

Chef is flexible and you can make it do what you want.

# About the course materials

All Opscode’s Chef training materials are licensed under Creative
Commons. See the license header slide in each presentation for
information.

# Summary

You should now be familiar with the instructor and students and what
we’re going to cover.
