slides/cookbooks-recipes-resources/01_slide.md, before:

# Cookbooks, Recipes, Resources

Section Objectives:

* Components of Chef cookbooks
* Create new cookbooks
* Write simple recipes
* Recognize and write Chef resources
* Run Chef with a cookbook on a node

.notes These course materials are Copyright © 2010-2012 Opscode, Inc. All rights reserved.
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution Share Alike 3.0 United States License. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us; or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 2nd Street, Suite 300, San Francisco, California, 94105, USA.

# Cookbooks Overview

Cookbooks are the fundamental units of file distribution in Chef. They
are "packages" for Chef recipes and other helper components.

They are designed to be sharable packages for managing infrastructure
as code. Cookbooks can be shared within an organization, or with the
Chef Community.

Nodes managed by Chef download cookbooks from the Chef Server to apply
their configuration.

# Cookbook Basics

<center><img src="../images/chef-basics-cookbook.png"></center>

# Creating Cookbooks

Cookbooks are merely a structured set of directories in your Chef Repository.

Create a new cookbook in the `cookbooks` directory. The content of the
recipe and metadata.rb don't matter right now, they just need to
exist.

    mkdir cookbooks/webserver
    mkdir cookbooks/webserver/recipes
    touch cookbooks/webserver/recipes/default.rb
    touch cookbooks/webserver/metadata.rb

.notes It is worth noting that the metadata OR recipes can be absent,
but not both. The cookbook must have one or the other for knife to
upload it.

# Cookbook Components

The most commonly used cookbook components are:

* recipes
* metadata
* assets (files and templates)

# Common Components: Metadata

Chef Cookbook *Metadata* is written using a Ruby domain-specific
language.

Metadata serves two purposes.

* Documentation
* Dependency management

# Metadata Documentation

Cookbook metadata contains documentation about the cookbook itself.

    maintainer       "Opscode, Inc."
    maintainer_email "cookbooks@opscode.com"
    license          "apachev2"
    description      "Configures web servers"
    long_description "Configures web servers with a cool recipe"

# Metadata Dependency Management

Metadata is also used for dependency management.

Cookbooks are like OS packages in that they can be interrelated. You
can use parts of one cookbook in another.

Cookbook dependencies are assumed when using part(s) of one cookbook
in another, such as including a recipe, or re-using a template.

Cookbook dependencies are explicitly defined in metadata with the
`depends` field.

.notes Chef is not a mind-reader.

# Metadata Version Management

Related to dependency management is version management. Cookbooks can
be versioned, and dependencies on versions can be declared.

Cookbook versioning is enforced with dependencies if used, and in Chef
Environments.

Specify a cookbook's version with the `version` field. It should be a
quoted string in the form "X.Y.Z", e.g., "1.0.0" or "0.5.2".

# Cookbook Dependencies

The metadata defines the additional cookbooks required that might not
appear in the run list explicitly.

When cookbooks are uploaded, the Ruby code is parsed by Knife and
translated to JSON when it is stored on the Chef Server.

This is a security feature, so the Chef Server does not execute
user-defined Ruby code.

# Common Components: Assets

One of the most common things to manage with Chef are configuration
files on the node's filesystem.

* `/etc/mysql/my.cnf`
* `/var/www/.htaccess`
* `C:\Program Files\My Application\Configuration.ini`

Chef cookbooks can contain `files` and/or `templates` directories to
contain the source files for these resources as we'll see later.

# Common Components: Recipes

*Recipes* are the work unit in Chef. They contain lists of resources
 that should be configured on the node to put it in the desired state
 to fulfill its job.

Nodes have a run list, which is simply a list of the recipes that
should be applied when Chef runs.

The node will download all the cookbooks that appear in its run list.

.notes We're not talking about roles yet, just recipes.

# Chef Recipes

Recipes contain lists of resources.

Resources are declarative abstract interfaces to OS resources like
packages, services, config files and users.

Information about the node itself is available via the `node` object.

.notes We will discuss the node object in greater detail later.

# Chef Recipes

Recipes are an internal Ruby domain-specific language (DSL).

* You need a 3rd generation programming language.
* You can't be limited by the language.

.notes We will cover basics of Ruby in greater detail in a later
section, "Just Enough Ruby for Chef"

# How Are Recipes Applied?

Nodes have a list of recipes they will run.

This run list can include recipes that also include other recipes.

These are applied to the node in the order listed.

# Chef Recipes

Recipes are processed in the order they are written.

* Ruby code is evaluated.
* Ruby recognized as Resources are added to the resource collection.
* Chef walks the resource collection to configure the resources.
* Providers take action to configure the resource as it was declared.

# Resources

Resources are the fundamental configuration object.

Chef manages system resources on the node so it can be configured to do its job.

* The apache2 package should be installed.
* The application user should be created.

# Resources

Resources abstract the details of how to configure the system. The commands:

    @@@sh
    apt-get install apache2
    useradd application

Become Chef resources:

    @@@ruby
    package "apache2"
    user "application"

# Resources

Resources take idempotent actions through *Providers*.

Providers know how to determine the current state of the resource on the node.

Providers do not take action if the resource is in the declared state.

# Resources Chef Can Configure

* directories, files, templates, remote files
* packages, services, users, groups
* scripts, commands, ruby code blocks
* subversion and git code repositories
* application deployment, HTTP requests
* network interfaces, filesystem mounts

Chef includes over 25 different kinds of resources.

.notes we will cover resources in depth later.

# Resource Components

* Resources have a type
* Resources have a name
* Resources take parameter attributes
* Resources specify the action to take

# Example Resources

    @@@ ruby
    directory "/etc/thing" do
      owner "root"
      group "root"
    end

    template "/etc/thing/config.conf" do
      source "config.conf.erb"
      owner "root"
      group "root"
      mode 0644
      action :create
    end

.notes in the absense of parameters, default values are assumed. same
with actions

# Sane Default for Resources

Each resource has a "name attribute."

This corresponds to a parameter attribute as the default value.

Parameter attributes all have default values internal to Chef. Specify
your own to be explicit, or to change the default.

Resources also have a default action. The default value depends on the
resource type.

# Resource Attributes

Resources are data driven through their parameter attributes.

* Packages have versions
* Users have home directories, shells and numeric IDs.

This data can come from multiple sources, either by writing in the
code itself or an external source.

# Distributing Cookbooks

Cookbooks are packages of source code and they can be distributed all
over the place.

* With version control
* With nodes to be configured
* With the Community

# Version Control

Use a version control system for your Chef Repository where the
cookbooks are stored.

Community best practice is Git. However, other DVCS are common. Use
the preferred tool for your organization.

It is beyond the scope of this course to discuss version control
strategies in depth.

Storing a cookbook in version control does not make it available to
Chef. It must be uploaded to the Chef Server.

# Nodes and Chef Server

In order for nodes to be configured with Chef, the cookbooks they need
must be uploaded to the Chef Server.

    knife cookbook upload COOKBOOK

.notes Chef Server uses an API for uploading cookbooks

# Applying Cookbooks

To run a recipe on a node with Chef, add the recipe to the node's run
list.

Recipes are stored in cookbook directories, and namespaced by the
cookbook's directory name.

The cookbook and recipe names can contain alpha-numeric characters,
including dash and underscore.

Recipes are stored in Ruby files, with the extension `.rb`. The `.rb`
is ommitted when adding a recipe to a node.

# Add Recipe to a Node

When adding a recipe to a node, combine the cookbook name and the
recipe name with `::`. If the `default` recipe is used, it is
optional.

    recipe[webserver]
    recipe[webserver::default]

Are equivalent. To use a different recipe, specify it by name:

    recipe[webserver::different-recipe]

# Add Recipe to a Node

Use knife to add a recipe to an existing node's run list on the Chef
Server.

    knife node run list add NODE 'recipe[webserver]'

Use quotes to prevent shell meta-character expansion.

Run Chef on the node and it will apply the recipe.

# Add Recipe to a Node

If the node does not exist on the Chef Server already, the run list
can be specified by passing a JSON file with `chef-client -j
FILE.json`.

    @@@ javascript
    {
      "run_list": [
        "recipe[webserver]"
      ]
    }

# Chef Community Cookbooks

Opscode hosts the Chef Community site where Chef users share
cookbooks:

* [http://community.opscode.com/](http://community.opscode.com/)

Knife includes sub-commands for working with the site.

    knife cookbook site --help

# Summary

* Components of Chef cookbooks
* Create new cookbooks
* Write simple recipes
* Recognize and write Chef resources
* Run Chef with a cookbook on a node

# Questions

* What are Chef cookbooks?
* What do cookbooks contain?
* Which part of a cookbook determines the version and how to handle
  dependencies?
* What two kinds of assets are distributed in cookbooks?
* How do recipes get applied to a node?
* What are the four components of a resource?
* How does Chef determine the order to configure resources?
* Student questions?

# Additional Resources

* [http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Cookbooks](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Cookbooks)
* [http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Recipes](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Recipes)
* [http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Resources](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Resources)

# Lab Exercise

Cookbooks, Recipes and Resources

* Create a new cookbook
* Write a simple recipe with two resources
* Run Chef with the cookbook on a node

Commit message:

Add notes about windows needing cmd.exe instead of powershell.exe

slides/cookbooks-recipes-resources/01_slide.md, after:

# Cookbooks, Recipes, Resources

Section Objectives:

* Components of Chef cookbooks
* Create new cookbooks
* Write simple recipes
* Recognize and write Chef resources
* Run Chef with a cookbook on a node

.notes These course materials are Copyright © 2010-2012 Opscode, Inc. All rights reserved.
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution Share Alike 3.0 United States License. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us; or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 2nd Street, Suite 300, San Francisco, California, 94105, USA.

# Cookbooks Overview

Cookbooks are the fundamental units of file distribution in Chef. They
are "packages" for Chef recipes and other helper components.

They are designed to be sharable packages for managing infrastructure
as code. Cookbooks can be shared within an organization, or with the
Chef Community.

Nodes managed by Chef download cookbooks from the Chef Server to apply
their configuration.

# Cookbook Basics

<center><img src="../images/chef-basics-cookbook.png"></center>

# Creating Cookbooks

Cookbooks are merely a structured set of directories in your Chef Repository.

Create a new cookbook in the `cookbooks` directory. The content of the
recipe and metadata.rb don't matter right now, they just need to
exist.

    mkdir cookbooks/webserver
    mkdir cookbooks/webserver/recipes
    touch cookbooks/webserver/recipes/default.rb
    touch cookbooks/webserver/metadata.rb

.notes It is worth noting that the metadata OR recipes can be absent,
but not both. The cookbook must have one or the other for knife to
upload it.

# Cookbook Components

The most commonly used cookbook components are:

* recipes
* metadata
* assets (files and templates)

# Common Components: Metadata

Chef Cookbook *Metadata* is written using a Ruby domain-specific
language.

Metadata serves two purposes.

* Documentation
* Dependency management

# Metadata Documentation

Cookbook metadata contains documentation about the cookbook itself.

    maintainer       "Opscode, Inc."
    maintainer_email "cookbooks@opscode.com"
    license          "apachev2"
    description      "Configures web servers"
    long_description "Configures web servers with a cool recipe"

# Metadata Dependency Management

Metadata is also used for dependency management.

Cookbooks are like OS packages in that they can be interrelated. You
can use parts of one cookbook in another.

Cookbook dependencies are assumed when using part(s) of one cookbook
in another, such as including a recipe, or re-using a template.

Cookbook dependencies are explicitly defined in metadata with the
`depends` field.

.notes Chef is not a mind-reader.

# Metadata Version Management

Related to dependency management is version management. Cookbooks can
be versioned, and dependencies on versions can be declared.

Cookbook versioning is enforced with dependencies if used, and in Chef
Environments.

Specify a cookbook's version with the `version` field. It should be a
quoted string in the form "X.Y.Z", e.g., "1.0.0" or "0.5.2".

# Cookbook Dependencies

The metadata defines the additional cookbooks required that might not
appear in the run list explicitly.

When cookbooks are uploaded, the Ruby code is parsed by Knife and
translated to JSON when it is stored on the Chef Server.

This is a security feature, so the Chef Server does not execute
user-defined Ruby code.

# Common Components: Assets

One of the most common things to manage with Chef are configuration
files on the node's filesystem.

* `/etc/mysql/my.cnf`
* `/var/www/.htaccess`
* `C:\Program Files\My Application\Configuration.ini`

Chef cookbooks can contain `files` and/or `templates` directories to
contain the source files for these resources as we'll see later.

# Common Components: Recipes

*Recipes* are the work unit in Chef. They contain lists of resources
 that should be configured on the node to put it in the desired state
 to fulfill its job.

Nodes have a run list, which is simply a list of the recipes that
should be applied when Chef runs.

The node will download all the cookbooks that appear in its run list.

.notes We're not talking about roles yet, just recipes.

# Chef Recipes

Recipes contain lists of resources.

Resources are declarative abstract interfaces to OS resources like
packages, services, config files and users.

Information about the node itself is available via the `node` object.

.notes We will discuss the node object in greater detail later.

# Chef Recipes

Recipes are an internal Ruby domain-specific language (DSL).

* You need a 3rd generation programming language.
* You can't be limited by the language.

.notes We will cover basics of Ruby in greater detail in a later
section, "Just Enough Ruby for Chef"

# How Are Recipes Applied?

Nodes have a list of recipes they will run.

This run list can include recipes that also include other recipes.

These are applied to the node in the order listed.

# Chef Recipes

Recipes are processed in the order they are written.

* Ruby code is evaluated.
* Ruby recognized as Resources are added to the resource collection.
* Chef walks the resource collection to configure the resources.
* Providers take action to configure the resource as it was declared.

# Resources

Resources are the fundamental configuration object.

Chef manages system resources on the node so it can be configured to do its job.

* The apache2 package should be installed.
* The application user should be created.

# Resources

Resources abstract the details of how to configure the system. The commands:

    @@@sh
    apt-get install apache2
    useradd application

Become Chef resources:

    @@@ruby
    package "apache2"
    user "application"

# Resources

Resources take idempotent actions through *Providers*.

Providers know how to determine the current state of the resource on the node.

Providers do not take action if the resource is in the declared state.

# Resources Chef Can Configure

* directories, files, templates, remote files
* packages, services, users, groups
* scripts, commands, ruby code blocks
* subversion and git code repositories
* application deployment, HTTP requests
* network interfaces, filesystem mounts

Chef includes over 25 different kinds of resources.

.notes we will cover resources in depth later.

# Resource Components

* Resources have a type
* Resources have a name
* Resources take parameter attributes
* Resources specify the action to take

# Example Resources

    @@@ ruby
    directory "/etc/thing" do
      owner "root"
      group "root"
    end

    template "/etc/thing/config.conf" do
      source "config.conf.erb"
      owner "root"
      group "root"
      mode 0644
      action :create
    end

.notes in the absense of parameters, default values are assumed. same
with actions

# Sane Default for Resources

Each resource has a "name attribute."

This corresponds to a parameter attribute as the default value.

Parameter attributes all have default values internal to Chef. Specify
your own to be explicit, or to change the default.

Resources also have a default action. The default value depends on the
resource type.

# Resource Attributes

Resources are data driven through their parameter attributes.

* Packages have versions
* Users have home directories, shells and numeric IDs.

This data can come from multiple sources, either by writing in the
code itself or an external source.

# Distributing Cookbooks

Cookbooks are packages of source code and they can be distributed all
over the place.

* With version control
* With nodes to be configured
* With the Community

# Version Control

Use a version control system for your Chef Repository where the
cookbooks are stored.

Community best practice is Git. However, other DVCS are common. Use
the preferred tool for your organization.

It is beyond the scope of this course to discuss version control
strategies in depth.

Storing a cookbook in version control does not make it available to
Chef. It must be uploaded to the Chef Server.

# Nodes and Chef Server

In order for nodes to be configured with Chef, the cookbooks they need
must be uploaded to the Chef Server.

    knife cookbook upload COOKBOOK

.notes Chef Server uses an API for uploading cookbooks

# Applying Cookbooks

To run a recipe on a node with Chef, add the recipe to the node's run
list.

Recipes are stored in cookbook directories, and namespaced by the
cookbook's directory name.

The cookbook and recipe names can contain alpha-numeric characters,
including dash and underscore.

Recipes are stored in Ruby files, with the extension `.rb`. The `.rb`
is ommitted when adding a recipe to a node.

# Add Recipe to a Node

When adding a recipe to a node, combine the cookbook name and the
recipe name with `::`. If the `default` recipe is used, it is
optional.

    recipe[webserver]
    recipe[webserver::default]

Are equivalent. To use a different recipe, specify it by name:

    recipe[webserver::different-recipe]

# Add Recipe to a Node

Use knife to add a recipe to an existing node's run list on the Chef
Server.

    knife node run list add NODE 'recipe[webserver]'

Use quotes to prevent shell meta-character expansion.

Run Chef on the node and it will apply the recipe.

.notes On Windows, use cmd.exe not powershell, else an erroneous entry
will be made (e.g., recipe[roles]).

# Add Recipe to a Node

If the node does not exist on the Chef Server already, the run list
can be specified by passing a JSON file with `chef-client -j
FILE.json`.

    @@@ javascript
    {
      "run_list": [
        "recipe[webserver]"
      ]
    }

# Chef Community Cookbooks

Opscode hosts the Chef Community site where Chef users share
cookbooks:

* [http://community.opscode.com/](http://community.opscode.com/)

Knife includes sub-commands for working with the site.

    knife cookbook site --help

# Summary

* Components of Chef cookbooks
* Create new cookbooks
* Write simple recipes
* Recognize and write Chef resources
* Run Chef with a cookbook on a node

# Questions

* What are Chef cookbooks?
* What do cookbooks contain?
* Which part of a cookbook determines the version and how to handle
  dependencies?
* What two kinds of assets are distributed in cookbooks?
* How do recipes get applied to a node?
* What are the four components of a resource?
* How does Chef determine the order to configure resources?
* Student questions?

# Additional Resources

* [http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Cookbooks](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Cookbooks)
* [http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Recipes](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Recipes)
* [http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Resources](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Resources)

# Lab Exercise

Cookbooks, Recipes and Resources

* Create a new cookbook
* Write a simple recipe with two resources
* Run Chef with the cookbook on a node
